Latest 5.15.0 RNs.mdx (#2702)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: developer-support/release-notes/dashboard.mdx

For an API-to-MCP proxy, the deployment target and API version are inherited from the source API and shown as read-only in the designer's Settings tab, and upstream-only sections such as Certificate Pinning, Rate Limit, and Upstream Authentication are hidden, since these proxies have no upstream configuration of their own.

The designer also gains a new **Tool mapping** tab for these proxies, listing every tool the source API could expose, including any left unselected in the wizard. Each row has an allow toggle, and selecting a tool opens a detail pane where you can override its name, description, and parameters. Only the tools you actually change, together with which tools are allowed, are saved, so anything left untouched keeps following the source API's own defaults as it evolves.

The MCP proxy list now shows a **Type** column so you can tell Tyk API and external server proxies apart at a glance.

**Introducing Tyk Governance**
 

> This release introduces Tyk Governance, a new capability built directly into the Dashboard for defining API standards and continuously checking your Tyk OAS APIs against them — catching design, security, and compliance issues before an API reaches production instead of after. Platform teams can create rulesets from a ready-to-use template or their own definition, apply them to APIs via categories, and see results directly on a new Governance tab for every API, complete with severity-graded issues and specific remediation guidance. Compliance status is also surfaced across the API list and on the Dashboard home page, and the same checks can be run from a CI/CD pipeline before an API is ever imported. Tyk Governance is an Enterprise Edition capability, enabled per organization — contact your Tyk account team to turn it on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release introduces Tyk Governance, a new capability built directly into the Dashboard for defining API standards and continuously checking your Tyk OAS APIs against them — catching design, security, and compliance issues before an API reaches production instead of after.

Platform teams can create rulesets from a ready-to-use template or their own definition, apply them to APIs via categories, and see results directly on a new Governance tab for every API, complete with severity-graded issues and specific remediation guidance. Compliance status is also surfaced across the API list and on the Dashboard home page, and the same checks can be run from a CI/CD pipeline before an API is ever imported.

Tyk Governance is enabled by a new claim in the Dashboard license; contact your Tyk account team to turn it on.
```

Dashboard is Enterprise only, so has no concept of Enterprise Edition. If it's a license claim, then state that.

Reviewer: Fio has confirmed it's a licence claim, so this suggestion stands.

> **Flexible configuration with a unified Key-Value reference syntax**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Configuration Secrets Management**
```

> This release also introduces a single, unified way to reference secrets and configuration values from an external store: `kv://<store>/<path>` for a whole value, or `$kv{<store>:<path>}` inline within a string. The Dashboard's own configuration file can now use this same syntax to source sensitive values — such as database credentials, the admin secret, and the license key — from an external secret store, in addition to its existing support for API definitions. Existing provider-specific references keep working unchanged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release adds [Secrets Management](/tyk-configuration-reference/kv-store) to the Tyk Dashboard configuration file for the first time, letting you reference values from external secrets stores in place of plain-text values.
```

> This release also adds GCP IAM-based authentication to Redis/Valkey for Google Cloud Memorystore deployments, updates the Go toolchain to Go 1.26, and includes a set of smaller fixes covering the API Debugger, user and API key management, policy update performance, secret masking, Listen Path validation, and license expiry visibility. This release also migrates off an unmaintained security library and addresses several CVEs in dependent libraries. For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed changelog below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**IAM-based authentication for Google Cloud Memorystore**

Tyk Dashboard now supports IAM-based authentication for Google Cloud Memorystore for Redis Cluster and Valkey, as an alternative to a static password.
```

For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog](#Changelog-v5.15.0) below.

#### Breaking Changes

There are no breaking changes in this release

#### Deprecations

There are no deprecations in this release.

#### Dependencies 
<a id="dependencies-5.15.0"></a>

<a id="dependencies-5.15.0"></a>

| Dashboard Version | Recommended Releases | Backwards Compatibility |
| :------ | :---------------- | :---------------- |
| 5.15.0  | MDCB v2.13.0      | MDCB v2.13.0      |
|         | Operator v1.5.0   | Operator v0.17    |
|         | Sync v2.2.2       | Sync v2.2.2       |
|         | Helm Chart v5.4.0 | Helm all versions |
|         | EDP v1.19.0       | EDP all versions  |
|         | Pump v1.17.0      | Pump all versions |
|         | TIB (if using standalone) v1.8.0 | TIB all versions |

##### 3rd Party Dependencies & Tools
<a id="3rdPartyTools-v5.15.0"></a>

| Third Party Dependency                                    | Tested Versions     | Compatible Versions | Comments | 
| :-------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------ | :------------------ | :------- | 

> | [Golang](https://go.dev/dl/)                              | 1.26                |  1.26               | [Go plugins](/api-management/plugins/golang) must be built using Go 1.26 | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Golang](https://go.dev/dl/)                              | 1.26                |  1.26               |  | 
```

Go plugins are a Gateway concern. They do not need to be mentioned in the Dashboard RN.

- **Portfolio-level visibility** — the API list gains a compliance status column and filter, and the Dashboard home page shows a notification banner whenever an API becomes non-compliant, so issues are visible without opening every API individually.
- **An optional Deployment Warning** can be enabled per ruleset, surfacing a warning (not a hard block) if you try to save a non-compliant change to a governed API.
- **CI/CD governance checks** — run the same evaluation from a pipeline (GitHub Actions, GitLab CI, Jenkins, or any tool that can call an HTTP endpoint) directly against an OpenAPI document, before the API is even imported into Tyk.
- Access to creating and managing rulesets is controlled by a dedicated "Rulesets" permission, separate from your existing API permissions.
In this release, Tyk Governance supports Tyk OAS APIs only. Tyk Governance is disabled by default — contact your Tyk account team to enable it for your organization. For more information, visit our documentation at [Tyk Governance Documentation](https://tyk.io/docs/tyk-governance/overview).
</Accordion>

> <Accordion title='Added a unified `kv://` syntax for referencing secrets and configuration values'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Secrets Management'>
```

{/* TT-16268, TT-17102, TT-17623, TT-17697, TT-17698, TT-17702 */}

> Tyk now supports a single, unified syntax for referencing secrets and configuration values held in an external store, anywhere a value can appear in an API definition: `kv://<store-name>/<path>` to substitute a whole value, or `$kv{<store-name>:<path>}` to substitute a value inline within a string. The store referenced by `<store-name>` — Vault, Consul, a plain environment variable, or a generic secrets provider — is declared once in a new Key-Value registry in the Gateway configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tyk Dashboard now supports Secrets Management, letting you reference values from external secrets stores: the Tyk config file, environment variables, local files (including Kubernetes-mounted secrets), Consul, Vault, AWS Secrets Manager, Azure Key Vault, and GCP Secret Manager, in place of plain-text values in Dashboard's configuration, using a consistent reference syntax:
```

> The Dashboard's own configuration file can now use this same syntax to source its own sensitive values — such as database credentials, the admin secret, and the license key — from an external secret store, via a new top-level `kv` configuration section. If the Dashboard cannot resolve a configured secret reference at startup, it fails to start rather than continuing with an invalid value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- `kv://<store>/<path>[#fragment]` for whole-value references.
- `$kv{<store>:<path>[#fragment]}` for embedding a reference inside a larger string.

The secrets management configuration block (`kv`) can itself contain references, for example pulling a Vault token from an environment variable.
```

> Existing provider-specific references (`vault://`, `consul://`, `env://`, `secrets://`, and the `$secret_<provider>.<key>` inline form) continue to work exactly as before, so no existing API definition or Dashboard configuration needs to change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
References are resolved once, at startup. Individual secrets stores can be marked as `required` and, if they cannot be reached or initialized, Dashboard will fail to start with a clear error rather than starting with that store silently unavailable.

See [Secrets Management](/docs/tyk-configuration-reference/kv-store) for full details.
```

</Accordion>
 

> <Accordion title='Added a new goja-based driver for JavaScript plugins'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Custom plugin enhancements in API Designer'>
```

{/* TT-16948, TT-17761 */}

> Tyk Gateway's JavaScript plugin engine now offers a `goja`-based driver as an opt-in alternative to the existing `otto` engine, improving performance and adding support for post-auth and response hooks in JS plugins — hook points the `otto` driver does not support. The `otto` driver remains the default, so existing JS plugins keep working unchanged; the new driver can be selected per API, including from the plugin driver dropdown in the Tyk OAS API designer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have made some changes in the custom plugins section of the API Designer to give access to new features in Tyk Gateway:

- choose Tyk Gateway's new JavaScript plugin engine by selecting the `JavaScript` driver
- when using JavaScript plugins, provide your plugin code inline as an alternative to giving a path to a file containing the code
- assign JavaScript plugins to any plugin hook
- assign multiple plugin bundles to an API with a simple comma separated list
```

</Accordion>

<Accordion title='Added GCP IAM authentication for Redis/Valkey'>
{/* TT-17611 */}

> Tyk components can now authenticate to Google Cloud Memorystore for Redis/Valkey using GCP IAM-based authentication, as an alternative to a static Redis password. This is supported for Memorystore for Valkey and for Memorystore for Redis Cluster; legacy non-cluster Memorystore for Redis has no IAM support from Google and continues to use a static password. The new authentication method is opt-in via configuration and is fully backward compatible with existing static-password setups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tyk Dashboard can now authenticate to Google Cloud Memorystore for Redis/Valkey using GCP IAM-based authentication, as an alternative to a static Redis password.

Dashboard obtains a Google OAuth2 access token from the workload's identity, using Application Default Credentials (ADC) and authenticates with the Memorystore using this token.

This is supported for use with Memorystore for Valkey and Memorystore for Redis Cluster. The legacy non-cluster Memorystore for Redis has no IAM support from Google and continues to use a static password.

The IAM configuration is set in the new `iam_auth` section of MDCB's storage config.
```

</Accordion>

> <Accordion title='Added a configuration option to limit idle PostgreSQL connection time'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='PostgreSQL connection pool management'>
```

{/* TT-16212 */}

> Tyk Dashboard now exposes a configuration option to cap the maximum idle time for PostgreSQL database connections, so idle connections can be released rather than held indefinitely. This helps deployments such as blue/green rollouts avoid exhausting the available PostgreSQL connections; the option is opt-in and preserves existing behavior when left unset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tyk Dashboard now exposes configuration options to manage its pools of PostgreSQL database connections.

The following options are available in the `storage.<category>.postgres` configuration and can be configured separately for each category of data.

- `max_open_connections` sets the maximum number of open connections in the pool (default: unlimited)
- `max_idle_connections` sets the maximum number of idle connections kept in the pool (default: 2)
- `connection_max_lifetime` sets how long a connection can be reused before being closed (default: unlimited)
- `connection_max_idle_time` sets how long a connection can sit idle before being closed (default: unlimited)

<Note>
Tyk Dashboard maintains two connection pools (read and write) for each of the four categories of data and the maximum number of connections is configured **per pool**.
</Note>

For more details see [SQL Connection Pool Management](/tyk-configuration-reference/sql#connection-pool-management).
```

</Accordion>

<Accordion title='Dashboard now validates that Listen Path includes a leading slash'>
{/* TT-17631 */}
We have resolved an issue where the Dashboard accepted and saved a Listen Path without a leading slash — through the API Designer, the legacy Classic API designer, and all import flows (Blueprint, Swagger, WSDL, and OpenAPI/AsyncAPI data source import). A Listen Path missing its leading slash causes the Gateway to fail to load that API, so every request to it silently returns HTTP 404. The Dashboard now validates this at both the UI and API level, and rejects the save or import with a clear error message before an invalid definition can reach the Gateway. An existing API is left unchanged if an update with an invalid Listen Path is attempted.
</Accordion>

> <Accordion title='Fixed duplicate upstream token requests and log noise in Upstream OAuth'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Select client authentication method when requesting token from upstream OAuth authorization server'>
```

Reviewer: This is not a bug - please move to the Add section.

{/* TT-16039 */}

> We've resolved an issue in Upstream OAuth (Enterprise Edition), where Tyk acts as the OAuth client to an upstream identity provider, that sent a redundant, always-failing token request when the identity provider required client credentials in the request body rather than in a header. This removed the extra round trip and the associated log noise generated every time an upstream token was obtained.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When requesting an OAuth token to use in Upstream OAuth, Tyk follows RFC 6749 in presenting the client credentials first in the request header and, if this fails, in the request body.

If the OAuth authorization server explicitly requires the credentials in the request body, this will mean that the first request will always fail.

You can now select the behavior that Tyk should adopt via a dropdown in the API Designer:

- **Header** will send the credentials only in the request header
- **Body** will send the credentials only in the request body
- **Header then Body** will try header and then body (default)
```

</Accordion>

> <Accordion title='Dashboard now shows the exact license expiry date and time'>

Reviewer: This is not a bug - please move to the Add section
